
Show all
About the job
Job Description

Job Description

Company Description

Who We Are: The San Francisco Police Department was established in 1849 and continually strives to become a more effective, inclusive and modern police department, while earning the trust and pride of those we serve and those who serve. Our goal is to reflect on current SFPD initiatives, assess best practices across the country, and evaluate the changing environment in policing and within the City to arrive at a strategy statement that the Department and our community can embody every day.

The San Francisco Police Department stands for Safety and Respect for All. We will engage in just transparent unbiased and responsive policing. We will do so in the spirit of dignity and in collaboration with the community. And we will maintain and build trust and respect as the guardians of Constitutional and human rights.

The San Francisco Police Department is committed to excellence in law enforcement and is dedicated to the people, traditions and diversity of our City. The department provides service with understanding, response with compassion, performance with integrity and law enforcement with vision. The department has grown into a nationally known police department providing law enforcement services to one of the most recognized cities in the United States.

Specific Information Regarding This Recruitment Process Are Listed Below

Application Opening: October 30, 2024
Application Deadline: Apply immediately, announcement may close any time after 5 days from posting date.
Class & Compensation: $118,924 - $149,682
Reporting Location: SFPD Headquarters, 1245 3rd Street, San Francisco, CA 94158
Work Schedule: Full time, Monday - Friday, Hybrid Telecommuting work schedule available inline with CCSF policy, not a full remote position.

Job Description

The San Francisco Police Department (SFPD), Technology Division is seeking to hire a Web Developer, Senior IS Programmer Analyst - SFPD (1063) who has a web background in Drupal Development and Design. As a member of the Web Team, this position is under the direction of the Principal Web Programmer Analysts, where you will be a contributor to building, maintaining, and improving the SFPD public website and intranet. The Senior Web Programmer Analyst will also be closely collaborating with other SFPD units, such as Media Relations, Records, and Legal in gathering requirements and developing Proof of Concepts (POCs) for sign-off to move to Production.

The essential duties of this position include, but are not limited to:

Assist in the design, development, enhancement, testing, implementation, and support of the SFPD website that focuses on community content, design, and user experience.
Front and backend web development, including HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript with utilizing one or more programming languages (such as PHP, Ruby, Python, Scala, JavaScript, C++, C#, .Net)
Write, edit and deliver code that is thoroughly tested for performance, able to handle specified load, and can be maintained over the long-term.
Validate content and edit code to remove deprecated code and inline styles on web pages.
Assist in the design and development for mobile browsers utilizing frameworks such as Foundation, Bootstrap, etc.
Adhere to web Accessibility standards, including Section 508 and Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG).
Troubleshoot and resolve technical problems.
Assist in content strategy, writing and editing websites and applications for improving the user experience while utilizing keywords for search engine optimization (SEO).
Design graphics, logos, and photo editing as required for website.
Stays current with technology changes and law enforcement operations that influence technology solutions.
Perform related duties and responsibilities, as assigned.

Qualifications

To be considered, you must possess the following education and experience:

 Education: An associated degree in computer science or closely related field from an accredited college or university OR its equivalent in terms of total course credits/units [i.e., at least sixty (60) semester or ninety (90) quarter credits/units with a minimum of twenty (20) semester or thirty (30) quarter credits/units in computer science or a closely related field].

AND

 Experience: One (1) year of full-time professional experience in application or software development or programming
Substitution: Additional experience as described above may be substituted for the required degree on a year-for-year basis (up to a maximum of two (2) years). One (1) year is equivalent to thirty (30) semester units / forty-five (45) quarter units with a minimum of 10 semester / 15 quarter units in computer science or a closely related field.

Note: One year of full-time employment is equivalent to 2000 hours. (2000 hours of qualifying work experience is based on a 40-hour work week.) Any overtime hours that you work above forty (40) hours per week are not included in the calculation to determine full-time employment.

Desirable Qualification: The stated desirable qualifications may be considered at the end of the selection process when candidates are referred for hiring.

Experience in Drupal open source content management platform including Drupal theme and module development.
Background in working with stakeholders, management and contractors to understand, develop, and implement creative business solutions and applications.
Experience in planning, executing and supporting web design, content management and user experience projects for both desktop and mobile platforms.
Knowledge of web standards, design fundamentals, security standards, browser compatibility, and known issues with major browsers and operating systems.
Background in User Experience, User Interface and User Centered Design with a focus on both user and stakeholder needs.
Experience creating and designing with Adobe Creative Suite Software, specifically Dreamweaver, Photoshop, InDesign, Illustrator, and Acrobat.

Verification of Education and Experience: Applicants may be required to submit verification of qualifying education and experience at any point during the recruitment and selection process. If education verification is required, information on how to verify education requirements, including verifying foreign education credits or degree equivalency, can be found at https://sfdhr.org/how-verify-education-requirements

Note: Falsifying one’s education, training, or work experience or attempted deception on the application may result in disqualification for this and future job opportunities with the City and County of San Francisco.

Resumes will not be accepted in lieu of a completed City and County of San Francisco application.

Applications completed improperly may be cause for ineligibility or disqualification.

Background Investigation: Prior to employment with the San Francisco Police Department, a thorough background investigation will be conducted to determine the candidate’s suitability for employment. The investigation may include, but not be limited to: criminal history records, driving records, drug/alcohol screening, and other related employment and personal history records. Reasons for rejection may include use of controlled substances and alcohol, felony conviction, repeated or serious violations of the law, inability to work with co-workers, inability to accept supervision, inability to follow rules and regulations or other relevant factors. Candidates may be required to undergo drug/alcohol screening and must clear Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of Investigation fingerprinting. Criminal records will be carefully reviewed; candidates who do not report their complete criminal records on their applications will be disqualified. Applicants will be fingerprinted.

Additional Information

Recruiter Information: If you have any questions regarding this recruitment or application process, please contact the Staff Services analyst, Danny Wan at danny.wan@sfgov.org.

Additional Information Regarding Employment with the City and County of San Francisco:

Information About The Hiring Process
Conviction History
Employee Benefits Overview 
Equal Employment Opportunity 
Disaster Service Worker
ADA Accommodation
Right to Work
Copies of Application Documents
Diversity Statement

SFPD Recruitment: https://www.sanfranciscopolice.org/your-sfpd/careers